Okay, start out with, tell me how you got into the
service. Are you familiar with the Berry Clan? No,
sir. Okay, this was back in the days where they had
universal military draft for physicians.
It was a real pain to get into a residency and get
drafted. And also the military needed a way that
they could plan on the number of people in
different specialties that would be coming in at a
certain time. So they devised a plan called the
Berry Plan, Dr. Frank Berry. And what it did is you
could volunteer to go into X branch of the service
at X time. And the time you could pick was either
immediately after your internship or after so
much residency had been, you know, partial
residency had been accomplished or after you'd
finished. And I got in the, I got in the very plan
because I wanted to finish my training. and get
through with it, get out of Houston, because I
didn't lose anything down there. And so, you know,
I'm just kind of an orderly person, just about how
the desk looked. And I wanted to finish my
training, go into service, and practice my
specialty. So that's how I got into the military.
What year was that? I must have gotten a commission
in about, I thought, well, I don't remember
exactly because my commission was backdated
until the time I entered medical school. So I was
commissioned. My date of rank was 1957, but I
probably got in, I mean, I probably signed up in the
very plan in 60 or 61 when I was junior or senior in
medical school. And I finished my training in 67.
So when you volunteered for it, you weren't really
aware of what was going on in Vietnam and that you
might be sent over there? No. Probably
not, because they weren't really getting heated
up about that, about Vietnam in the real early 60s.
We were over there participating, and we thought
it was going to
be a major deal. Excuse me. Now, to get over to once
you were in Vietnam, skip to a few years later.
First of all, what was the general condition of the
military hospitals in Vietnam? Good shape? I was
in the Air Force. The Air Force did not have a
hospital in Vietnam until
I guess 1966, maybe 65, 66. They put a a big hospital
complex in Cameron Bay. And they had, the only
other medical facilities the Air Force had were
dispensaries at the various Air Force bases,
which was perfectly adequate, because number
one, pilots were the healthiest bunch of guys in
the world. I mean, if you had anything wrong with
you, you can't be one. So they really didn't need a
hospital, and the Army had excellent facilities
within two or three miles of each of the Air Force
dispensaries. And the Navy hospital up at Da Nang
was just superior. The facilities were
excellent. So where did, once you got into
Vietnam, where did you spend most of your time? I
spent time, I was assigned to the Air Force
hospital at Cam Ranh Bay. And then I had to visit the
various dispensaries in the country as a
consultant. and some in the Venture Hospitals.
Okay, so I guess you probably saw other hospitals,
though. Oh, yeah. Okay, so some of these questions
may be fine answering based on those other ones
rather than one you ever had. I don't know. Like the
picture that a lot of Americans get of Army
hospitals, many of them who aren't familiar draw
that picture from shows like MASH. And to clear the
record, how do they compare it?
The facilities were much superior in Vietnam. At
the hospitals. I can't say anything about aid
stations. I guess they had gone from MASH units to
MUST units, I guess, by Vietnam. And I can't
remember what MUST stands for. But some people
operated in MASH-like facilities. But by and
large, the evacuation was so good, that people got
from the field to a really well-equipped hospital
quickly. And most of the work was really done in
well-equipped facilities. The personalities
and attitudes are remarkably similar to the MASH
people. One of the first meetings I ever went to
after I got back from Vietnam was in Atlanta. And I
picked up a copy of a book called MASH at the airport
in Dallas. And I thought they were going to divert
the plane and put me off in New Orleans, because I
laughed so hard at it. Because I knew everybody in
the book.
You mentioned field hospitals and other
hospitals. But can you clarify a little bit, what
was the actual outline of the military hospital
system? Oh, it's been so long, I've probably blown
a lot of it. In the Air Force, the chain of command
was from the base dispensary to the hospital at
Cameron, so that was no problem.
With
the Marines and the Army, there's been a lot of this
stretching me. See, I guess you had battalion aid
stations. which were mainly concerned with
picking up and triage of casualties. And from
there, the people were evacuated, I guess, to the
field hospitals.
And the Army, the Navy had the NSA hospital. at Da
Nang, which took care of most of the major work that
came out of I-Corps. And then the Army had an
excellent hospital in Pleiku that served most of
the Central Highlands.
We got some of that fallout at Cameron, in that
general area. And then the Army
had a big, big field hospital down in Saigon,
obviously, and one at
Ambitui. I don't remember. Some funny little name
down there. But the evacuation was so good,
really, that I think most of the people really got
into it. secure facilities fairly rapidly, and it
was a good, a fairly decent atmosphere for the
doctor to work in. Or on the subject, I don't know
what you've done about other people to talk to, but
Dr. Jack Walker, who's the internist here in town,
was at one of the Army hospitals down near Saigon,
and he was I guess Jack would now see you then, so he
was at a level where he could probably tell you more
about our organization. I've talked to Dr. Lee.
I've got to set up a time to talk to him, maybe,
because I need more information. Jack was a career
officer, and Ed and I were both just passing
through, so Jack might really give you some
insight that Ed and I can't do. I
know the hospital you're at might not apply to this
question, but I was curious as to how much danger
the hospitals were in as far as attacks from the VC
or under attack. Mine was in absolutely no danger
at all. Cameron was attacked one time when I was
there and it was sort of just a little token effort.
They just threw some mortars in out on the edge.
Cameron was so big and so well protected.
Some of the American military personnel did work
in some provincial hospitals as part of the
pacification program and you made rounds with
guns there and you operated in your pod because
that was not very secure. I had friends down in the
Delta that routinely were shelled when they were
operating.
The naval facility up in Da Nang was interesting
because it was up on the top of the rise. And on one
side of the rise was the Monkey Mountain airfield,
which was a marine airfield. And on the other side
of the rise was a swamp that the VC owned. And the VC
would sit in the swamp and shoot mortars over the
hospital in the airfield. You know, the Navy has
flag of regression here and there. They were up
there working like slaves, people shooting at
them. But when it came time to eat, they'd go down
and they'd sit down at the table and the Philippine
busboys would serve them and they would eat off
China. You know, act like a gentleman for 45
minutes and then go back to the war. But I was, at
Cameron, I was really sort of in the womb. But it
certainly wasn't that way all over. People in
Pleiku got hit several times.
Denying was never secure. Saigon got pretty crazy
at the end. And then the guys out in the aid stations
and all, they were in constant power,
I would imagine. Ever since the Civil War, I've
been looking at the different wars through
Vietnam. Each war makes remarkable advancements
in sanitation habits, of course. In a civil war,
the majority of the people died because of poor
sanitation. And I know that Vietnam, that it was
much, much more improved than that. But was there
still a problem with unsanitary? Not in any of the
areas that I went. Not in the United States
military areas. Some provincial hospitals, not
the little we desired in the 80s, but no, I don't
think so. That's what I expected. When we went up to
410 there, the Air Force sent you to the field
service school or whatever. They teach you how to
wear the uniform, how to sleep, how to be an
officer, a gentleman. And they taught you how
to... build sanitary things for urinals and
latrines and what-not. But to my certain
knowledge, I never went in plus bid. I went in flush
toilets, running water, and foam bid. Was the
number of doctors and medics adequate for the
amount of casualties you all encountered? It was,
except during the Tet Offensive in 68. And that was
tough.
But most of the time, most of the places that I went,
they had doctors standing around. You don't have
any idea about a guess on the patient to doctor
ratio? No, I can't give you a number
on that. Speaking about the personnel, how was the
quality of Many of the people didn't volunteer,
but were drafted, I suppose.
They're generally good quality doctors. Yes.
Yeah. They're good quality. I think I saw very
little drug abuse. That one guy that I'm almost
certain was smoking pot. I don't know of any that
were taking hard drugs. Alcohol abuse was pretty
prevalent. But the
people that were in position, command, whatever
you want to call it, were all fully trained, good
people. Mainly because of the beer plant, because
they'd been able to get people who had already
completed their training and were well qualified
in their specialties. And the people who had just
had an internship or one year of residency were
assigned as general medical officers and they
were in dispensaries and seeing colds and
gonorrhea and just kind of like the clinic at home.
And so I think the quality of the medicine that was
available was excellent. Was there much
difference between the drafted and the people who
got in for a career or volunteered? Well, it's back
to the MASH philosophy. Most of us did not have a
great deal of respect for the regular Army medical
officers. Some of them were really excellent
people, but most of them were not as well trained as
people that were going to be back into the civilian
force. They weren't as well motivated. Some of
them had been, you know, it's hard to be judgmental
about them because they'd been stuck at desk jobs
and not practicing medicine for years. My first
hospital commander in Vietnam was a guy that, when
he got out of medical school, he did an internship
in the service. He became a flight surgeon, where
the only thing he saw were healthy young men. He got
a degree in preventive medicine, which is fine,
but it doesn't help you practice. It doesn't help
you take care of sick people. Maybe it helps you
keep people from getting sick, but that isn't much
good when people are getting shot, because you
can't prevent that kind of stuff. And one of our
anesthesiologists told him that. He said, Jerry,
the problem with this hospital is the boss has a
degree in preventive medicine. And the only thing
you do is go around here and prevent medicine. And I
think that was the attitude that a lot of us had
about the regular army guys. Some of them I thought
were suboptimal. A large number of them had just
been out of touch with clinical medicine for
years. And a few of them were absolutely superb.
Was there adequate medical supplies available in
Vietnam? Yes. Was the equipment and supplies
found there very comparable to what you would find
in an American hospital at the time?
I had almost everything I wanted and if I didn't
have it I could use it
again. Generally, a patient could survive in a
military hospital in Vietnam as easily as they
would have been in a hospital.
I think care of the critically wounded patient in
the average military hospital in Vietnam was
probably better. than it is in the average
civilian hospital in the United States because
they're attuned to taking care of critically sick
people. They don't have anybody in there with
headaches and constipation. They've got people
that have died. And the corpsmen and the nurses and
the physicians, everybody was attuned to
getting on it and taking care of bad problems and
not being afraid of anything. That's a problem a
lot of people have taken care of sick people.
They're scared of them. Oh, he's dying. He's
dying. You can't hurt him. You can try to do
something for him. That's sort of the attitude
that most of the people had. The Navy Corpsmen were
absolutely superb. I was, first place, they were
up there with the Marines and our Corps really
getting shot up bad. And a lot of them did get shot
and then evacuated them down to us for secondary
care. and kept them until they were ready to go back
to duty. I probably kept the Navy corpsmen a little
longer than I should have. Number one, because
they didn't want to go back and get shot anymore.
Number two, they sure were good help. I loved
having them around.
With the nature of the war injuries, I read an
article on the number of injuries contributed to
gunshot, or whatever. I know that much blood was
needed to replace the lost blood. Was that ever a
problem, finding enough blood? It never was at
Cameron.
I didn't hear it talked about a lot. I had my
secretary looking for a little booklet. Let me
give you the title of it. called the Second
Syncopac, C-I-N-C-P-A-C, Surgical Conference,
John Hay Air Base, Philippines, 25-28 March,
1968. This
was a deal the military put together. Those of us in
country didn't know what was happening to people.
You know, patch them up and then they'd go to a
casualty staging unit and get on the C-141 and
they'd go to the Philippines or Japan to
convalesce. And we didn't know what our results
were. And the guys in the Western Pacific didn't
know what we had done because the records we got
lost so often and the records were so skimpy. So
they put this conference together in the
Philippines, so those of us in country that were
taking care of people initially could get
together with the people that were giving them
tertiary
care. And I can't find my copy of the thing,
but I have Daphne looking for it. As I recall, it's
pretty good and could probably answer some of
those questions you have. If we're not able to find
it, we might can get it through the government
printing office or Surgeon General's office.
We'll look for it if we want. Okay, good deal. I
mentioned that I'd seen some statistics, but at
your hospital, what were the prevalent injuries
due to combat?
Okay. Uh... In what location? What type? What was
the cause of it? The vast majority of them were
fragmentation wounds that made it
in. And the vast majority were by and large
soft tissue wounds.
Yeah, I had a big orthopedic service. I had a big
orthopedic service.
I'm being a little vague about that because our
hospital we
had the 12th USAF hospital and then the 22nd
Casualty Staging Flight and physically they were
in the same building but on paper they were two
separate commands and I got confused about the
evacuees that were coming into the casualty
staging flight, which we had to go over and
stabilize and be sure things were all right and
send them over, and then the ones that were in the
hospital itself.
What were the prevalent diseases not related to
combat? Hilarious.
And it got to be a problem because down in the south,
the
plasmodium vivax was the real malaria bug and the
prophylaxis for it was excellent and if you took
your chloroquine and bremoquine you didn't get
vivax malaria
and if you did get it you got vivax malaria and you
got over it but up in the north They had a different
bug, as I recall, it was falciparum malaria. And it
was a bad actor. It really was a bad actor. And
initially, every time you got malaria, you got
shipped out of the country. And the kids didn't
want to be there, found out about that, and they
quit taking chloroquine and primicune because
all their friends had had Plasmodium bivax
malaria, and they got sick, and they got sent to
Japan, and they got well, and they were out of the
country, and that was great, so they wouldn't take
it. But then they got an I-Corps, and they got the
damn falciferum stuff, and they started dying
from it. And to sort of break that habit up, the Army
put a big 6,000-bed malaria hospital, 6,000 beds,
a major hospital, down on the sands bed out of
Cameroon. Just so malaria wasn't a ticket out of
the country.
Why catch it if you're going to have to stay in
Vietnam anyway? But that was a bad problem.
All my readings I've done so far, most of them have
come from the 60s, early 70s. They seemed to shy
away from VD. I don't know why they do that, but they
just don't talk about it much. But I know it was a
major problem. Very common. And they had some
strains of gonococcus that were imported from
Thailand. Extremely resistant to all the
antibiotics we had at the time. I did not get
involved in treating much VD, fortunately. But
the GMOs were pulling their hair out with some of
the strains of gonorrhea that were coming through
there because they were just resistant to
everything we had. I don't think you could have
shot them with that. Was there any steps taken to
prevent what you know about them? Well, what can
you do? They weren't.
One of the standbys civilian
world, a guy that knows he's going to go someplace
where he's going to be exposed, he'll get the old
friendly doc to give him some no-sweat pills, you
know, some antibiotics to take before he goes. I
don't think that was done.
Mostly it was a matter of trying to educate people,
but you've got to... a bunch of 18, 19-year-old
kids that have been over there getting shot at, and
send them to Bangkok, and somebody says, GI, you
seem to be a movie star. And she's a good-looking
little thing. It's hard not to get exposed to some
of those things, particularly to tell you how
wonderful you are and how good-looking you are and
what a war hero you are. It was a bad problem. Most
people who came down with renal disease, did they
not see any more combat, or did they usually get
treated and then went back to war? Treated and then
back. And if they had one of the strains, the policy
was you could not come home as long as you were
infectious,
which made people behave on their last R&R usually
anyway. Like the earlier wars... I don't know if
that was really policy or not. That was certainly
what everyone was threatened with. No, I remember
reading something like that, but they couldn't
come in. Certainly should have been.
Infection. I don't know if that was a problem in the
earlier wars. How big of a problem was it in
Vietnam?
Pretty much have it under control.
Yeah, I think so. I think the... the experience in
treatment of soft tissue injuries in earlier
wars, that is, you know, clean them up and leave
them open, uh, stood us in awfully good stead. And
then the first real war in the antibiotic area, uh,
era, uh, was Vietnam and decent antibiotics, I
guess, in Korea. Now I don't, I don't think, uh, It
certainly wasn't the horror that it was, say, in
the Civil War and the First World War and the early
wars, because the wounds were... We learned that
the other wars had taught us how to handle wounds.
Obviously, there was some, but if you'd leave them
open, they'd usually be open. What drugs,
antibiotics, whatever, did y'all use mostly? Oh,
I guess ampicillin was probably... Big drug
there. Tetracyclines were useful. Penicillin.
It's amazing. Penicillin's still the best
antibiotic around. It was the first one we really
came up with. Chloramphenicol. Chloramycin,
whatever you want to call it. It's sort of...
Chloramphenicol got a bad rap for a long time
because of the blood disgraces it causes. It's
super antibiotic. It really kind of salvaged some
of its reputation in Vietnam, and I think it's
probably being used more now than it was 20 years
ago.
What drugs or therapy was used to reduce pain? What
do you mean? What do you mean? I'm sure so many So
many guys get used to using
trade names. And Demerol slips off the tongue
easily. And a lot of Demerol is used. We use
morphine primarily. It's extremely effective.
It's extremely cheap. Was it readily available?
Was there always being relief available? Yes.
How much? of the diseases would you attribute to
being in
Vietnam? How much did they get because they were
there that they wouldn't have gotten if they had
been somewhere else? Being involved strictly
with surgery, I just don't think I can answer that
question.
OK.
Psychiatric. people who were admitted for
psychiatric reasons, what percentage, just to
round about guess, were admitted to the hospital
you were at for psychiatric reasons?
Oh, if I were just guessing, I'd say 8% to 12%. I
don't know if we did. I don't think we did. Three
shrinks. I don't know. That's just a hip shot, I
don't know. It seems to me like they just had one
ward, and we had, as I recall, 12 wards, so that's
where I came in. I guess more importantly than how
many was, did this number change over the time that
you were there? Towards the end of your period
there, did you see a lot more people coming in
besides captains?
I don't think so. The only place I would have seen
them would be in the casket staging flights. And
those would have been the only ones that were
really grossly psychotic, unable to function.
The guys that were just banged up in the head
because of what was going on every day were
probably still able to get by and were treated
locally. And I really don't know what sort of
outpatient load their psychiatrist
had.
What was the approximate survival rate of
patients that were wounded? Another guest
speaker.
We didn't lose many that made it to the hospital,
but I don't know I don't know how many went straight
to the morgue or the helicopter. Yeah, that's the
main thing. Those that made it to the hospital. The
Bible was excellent that much.
Of those that were admitted to the hospital, was
the majority returned to further combat, or were
they... with the majority? I would imagine the
majority went back to work.
I'm almost certain of that. Again, it's hard to
make that judgment because none of them that came
through the Casta Station flight were going back.
They were all going to Japan or the Philippines and
probably going back to that.
Okay. You've already said a few things about the
evacuation system in Vietnam, and I've read
almost everything I've read praises that. Can you
tell me a little bit about the helicopter
evacuation system? I don't know if you worked much
with it, but I know that most of your patients came
from that. How did it work?
The guys that flew those things were all crazy.
They'd do anything to get you out of the vehicle.
Very dedicated people. I don't know what their
capacity rate was, but I suspect it was higher than
almost anybody else, except maybe the Marine
second lieutenant.
They'd get called in, and they'd go. And they'd
bring in as much as they could. And
had the greatest respect in the world for those
men. I lost some very good friends flying those
things. I thought that was to help people get
killed, to
try to keep up with people dying. And then the
outpatient, or the outpatient, the outcountry
evacuation system was excellent. The planes were
all well equipped.
I flew one of them a couple of times, and it was sort
of like being in a hospital. The big C-141. That
C-9A Nightingale, WC-9A
was modified as a patient carries
a flying ambulance. It was a superbly designed
ambulance.
That was the biggest improvement over
earlier
wars like Korea. Can you think of anything else
that was an improvement, medical-wise, over,
say, Korea?
I think in my field,
in chest and vascular surgery,
I think my generation of military surgeons owed
such a tremendous debt to the guys that were in
Korea, because that's where they started
learning how to handle vascular wounds. and the
changes in philosophy about how to handle chest
wounds was
very important for it. See, all those young guys
that would have been Trapper and Hawkeye, by the
time Vietnam came around, they were all
professors. Guys like Frank Spencer, just pick
almost any guy that's professor in a major program
right now, and the chances are he was either a
Hawkeye
or a Trapper.
Can you think of any lessons that were learned as a
result in medicine in Vietnam that had an effect on
the future of medicine today?
I'm not sure we made any great medical discoveries
in Vietnam. If we didn't, it would be surprising
because
war has almost always been good for surgery. The
surgeons have learned something down there every
time they had to go to war. And I really don't know
what we came up
with. Probably As much as anything, we learned
something about resuscitation of the severely
injured person, getting blood volumes restored,
and the importance of doing that.
How to take care of the body. that the wound
happened to be in. I don't think we made much
improvement in wound care, but I think in general
care of the wounded person probably did, as far as
fluids and electrolytes.
Learning the importance of acid-base balance,
things that
are pretty casual. I don't know. Is every soldier
that joins the Air Force, is he trained in some way
in first aid? Not just medical corps, I mean
anybody who joins? I don't know. Well, the reason
I'm asking is although the helicopter evacuation
system saved many, many lives, I know that there's
a lot of times that the helicopters couldn't get in
there. an hour or two. And I've taken a few first aid
and EMT classes. And they talk about the golden
hour and stuff. The first hour after injury is the
most important. And I was wondering why couldn't,
I was thinking that maybe every soldier should be
trained somehow in first aid just to apply the
pressure at the right place or whatever. I suspect
it's illogical to think that they all don't have
some kind of basic first aid training.
The heart of that situation, of course, is your
corpsman.
You know, in all the military movies, somebody
gets shot, the first thing you hear them say is,
corpsman! That's a good way to get in a lot of
trouble with good military units. Because your
commanding officer wants you to call that
corpsman by his first name. Because when those
other guys hear corpsman, they want to shoot the
one that gets out. If you shoot him, you know, That
makes your effective kill rate better if you can
take care of the ones that's trying to hurt you,
help you, wound you. I've known some Marine
officers that will use you pretty good if you call
for a corpsman. You better call for Fred, you know,
if you ever, because he didn't want anybody, he
didn't want anyone. He didn't want anybody who was
called to work. I just started thinking about that
when I read an article that said some people died
just because of blood loss where they were thought
to have stopped the pressure that could have
prevented them. That's why I brought that up.
Most people with rudimentary first aid training
don't do it.
Have you seen me out there? They put a tourniquet on
a venous
injury.
How many, of course you weren't at a field
hospital, so you might not have seen this, but I was
wondering how many hypochondriacs, people who
were looking for a way out of the war. A lot of them. I
can't give you a number, but a lot of them. How did
you deal with these? I said, I'm sorry, John, you
know. I'm sorry you don't do well. I mean, I don't
know what you're wrong with. You have to go back to
work. That's easier in surgery.
You'd have to be, you'd see the occasional guy that
would picket an incision or something, you know,
to get it infected or get it open.
The policy in the Marine Corps is seven days, or at
that time the policy in the Marine Corps was seven
days after an appendectomy, you go back to the
field, full duty, coach your pack, 40-yard march,
whatever. And you see a lot of people that really,
you know, they don't get well as quick as they
should. That's motivation, I guess.
Back
to when you got, how long were you in Vietnam? One
year. One year? And then you came back and you were
still on the search when you came back? I
was wondering how it was, life back at home for a
doctor returning from Vietnam. Was it hard to find
work? I was still in the Air Force. I went up to the
Scott Air Force Base in Illinois for a year, which
was really superb. I fought them. I didn't want to
go down the middle of a corn patch, which is what
Southern Illinois is. It was the Air Force Chief
Referral Hospital for Pulmonary Disease, and it
was like having a year of residency for me. It was
super. And I don't think anybody had trouble
finding a place to go practice after they got out of
the service, after Vietnam. Your work. We know
that some of the Vietnam vets, some people that
have provided had a hard time back in society. I was
just wondering if the doctors had the same
problem. No, they didn't see the combat
thing around there. I don't think so. I imagine...
I imagine there's probably a higher incidence of
the drug and alcohol
abuse in the Middle East. I don't have any way to
prove that. I've never seen any statistics on it. A
lot of guys, you know, there were just a lot of guys,
and not just medical officers, but everybody.
They were either working or drunk.
Maybe break that pattern.
Speaking of addiction, was there any problem with
the patients getting addicted to the morphine.
I don't know if you saw any of South Vietnam's
medical hospital, but did you see any? How did ours
compare with theirs? I
had been
there shortly, and they asked me to go to the
prevention hospital. I was not trying, and I went
up there. At that time, TB was on the wane in this
country. I'd been to the big VA hospital in
Houston, and they had a lot of TB. And I must have
seen three or four cases of tuberculosis in
Cayman, Houston, which is pretty much from the
mid-60s. I went up to the provincial hospital.
They were trying that day, and they had 75 of them or
more.
A lot of leprosy, a lot
of trachoma. Did a lot of South Vietnamese come to
your hospital, or did they keep their own? You just
have the Americans. No. The policy at our place was
that people would go out into the villages and have
a clinic, do what you could. We tried to help out in
provincial hospitals, and then we had two
civilian wards.
I guess that was... I don't remember what they
called that target,
but... I'm not sure that... I don't think the Army
maybe officially sanctioned filling up their
bids with spades. Number one, because they were
getting shot at a lot. And it was a good PR thing for
us to do with the camera. I did a few parts, some
congenital stuff. I had a lot of Vietnamese
working that came on the air base. They came to work
in cattle trucks, and they would turn them over
from time to time and get a lot of trauma. So yeah, we
sat there, basically.